# Getting Started with Multi-model Databases

**Description:** In this set of sessions I'll be working through setup and configuration of Apache Cassandra. I'll cover a number of topics as shown below. As I get the core features and capabilities of Apache Cassandra covered, I'll then move into the realm of DataStax Enterprise (DSE) and the respective addition of analytics, graph, search, and related features and capabilities of DSE. Along the way I'll cover LifeCycle Manager (LCM), OpsCenter, and Studio for use with DSE. Here's a further breakdown of the topics I'll be covering:

1. An introduction to a range of databases: Apache Cassandra, Postgresql and SQL Server, Neo4j, and ... in memory database.
2. An Introduction - Apache Cassandra and what it is, how to get a minimal cluster started, options for deploying something quickly to try it out.
3. Adding to Apache Cassandra with DataStax Enterprise, gaining analytics, graph, and search. In this session I'll dive into what each of these capabilities within DataStax Enterprise give us and how the architecture all fits together.
4. Deployment of Apache Cassandra and getting a cluster built. Options around ways to effectively deploy and maintain Apache Cassandra in production.
5. Moving to DataStax Enterprise (DSE) from Apache Cassandra. Getting a DSE Cluster up and running with OpsCenter, Lifecycle Manager (LCM), and getting some queries tried out with Studio.
6. Connecting to Apache Cassandra with the C# Driver. Differences in the driver for Apache Cassandra versus DataStax Enterprise. Connecting with and testing, verification, and design patterns around building on the C# driver for DSE.
7. Everything I just did in session 6 I'm going to shift over to Node.js and connect and work with JavaScript in this session. Wrapping up with some design patterns discussion around use of JavaScript against DataStax Enterprise and Apache Cassandra.
8. Same as session 6 and 7, I'll tackle those topics but with Go. This session will be unique in that Go doesn't have a supported driver for DSE but we may just have to change that soon! So join in and let's get Go pushed as a first class supported driver!
9. With Go, C#, and JavaScript covered I'll started getting deeper into some design patterns and other elements of coding. In this session I'll cover some basic retrieval patterns and what that means for issuing against the database cluster itself.